#12 Shift Basics Batch Execution (#34)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/getting_started/basics/batch.md

Reviewer: Should we add a TODO somewhere to remember to add the docs for the shift_batch command for the terminal? Once it is clear that it can work correctly.

Author: I added the shift_batch execution part in this commit https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/pull/34/commits/10a7e798b8c09f7050fa84651a50ecfa257c7794

Please have a look if you can

# Batch Execution

> Shift is able to run workflows without the need of a UI interface. This is called Batch mode and can be used via the Shift Python API.

Reviewer 2: Just a question, I have seen different ways when we mention Python, in some cases (different pages) is written as `Python` and in other cases as `python`, it's a little bit inconsistent.
Can we decide which is the best way to keep consistency between the different pages? @Inbibo/shift

## Opening a Workflow

The following snippet of code can be used to open a Shift workflow file:

```python
from shift.core import files

workflow, catalog_manifest = files.openBatchWorkflow("<path_to_your_workflow_file>")
```

> This method execution will return the `SWorkflow` Python class containing the workflow and a Python dictionary containing the information on the Python modules loaded by the workflow. Have a look at the [Shift API](../../reference/api.md) for more information on the method and the `SWorkflow` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The execution of this method will return the `SWorkflow` Python class containing the workflow and a Python dictionary containing the information on the Python modules loaded by the workflow. Have a look at the [Shift API](../../reference/api.md) for more information on the method and the `SWorkflow` class.
```

> The execution of this method will return the `SWorkflow` Python class containing the workflow and a Python dictionary containing the information on the Python modules loaded by the workflow. Have a look at the [Shift API](../../reference/api.md) for more information on the method and the `SWorkflow` class.

Reviewer 3: @juliavisserinbibo should consider the catalog_manifest returned like a dict of "Python modules loaded" by Shift, or a dict of "Shift Catalogs"? I know that a catalog is a pyModule at the end, but just to be sure how to refer to the catalog in the documentation.

Reviewer: Right, it should be
```suggestion
The execution of this method will return the `SWorkflow` Python class containing the workflow and a Python dictionary containing the information on the Shift catalogs loaded by the workflow. Have a look at the [Shift API](../../reference/api.md) for more information on the method and the `SWorkflow` class.
```

Author: right! done!

Reviewer 3: I think you have a typo, pls check to fix "Shft catalogs" by Shift catalogs @albertochimentiinbibo

Author: great catch man thanks a lot!

## Executing a Workflow

Once the workflow file is opened, its execution can be triggered with the following code:

```python
result = workflow.execute()
```

> External inputs for the workflow can be set by providing a Python dictionary as first argument of the `workflow.execute` call. This dictionary should be formatted using the input plug names from the `Input` operator as keys and the content that should be passed as values.

Reviewer: I would add an example of this in the code

Author: done

> External inputs for the workflow can be set by providing a Python dictionary as first argument of the `workflow.execute` call. This dictionary should be formatted using the input plug names from the `Input` operator as keys and the content that should be passed as values.

Reviewer 3: I would suggest to add another example with parameters. Maybe:
```suggestion
External inputs for the workflow can be set by providing a Python dictionary as first argument of the `workflow.execute` call. This dictionary should be formatted using the input plug names from the `Input` operator as keys and the content that should be passed as values.

```python
workflowExternals = {
    "myBooleanPlug": True,
    "myStringPlug": "Hello world"
}
result = workflow.execute(workflowExternals)
```
```

Author: done!

> The `result` variable will contain a similarly structured dictionary with the output plug names of the `Output` operator as keys and their content as values.

Reviewer 3: I would add and explanation of how to check if the workflow execution went well. Explaining that if the result is empty, probably means that the workflow execution have fail (If you set the stopOnError=True)

Author: Added a subsection to explain the stop on error behaviour and explain the result content.
done!

# Batch Execution

Shift is able to run workflows without the need of a UI interface. This is called Batch mode and can be used via the Shift Python API.

## Opening a Workflow

The following snippet of code can be used to open a Shift workflow file:

```python
from shift.core import files

workflow, catalog_manifest = files.openBatchWorkflow("<path_to_your_workflow_file>")
```

> This method execution will return the `SWorkflow` Python class containing the workflow and a Python dictionary containing the information on the Shft catalogs loaded by the workflow. Have a look at the [Shift API](../../reference/api.md) for more information on the method and the `SWorkflow` class.

Reviewer: Avoid using "this"

```suggestion
The `openBatchWorkflow `method will return the `SWorkflow` Python class containing the workflow and a Python dictionary containing the information on the Shft catalogs loaded by the workflow. Have a look at the [Shift API](../../reference/api.md) for more information on the method and the `SWorkflow` class.
```

## Executing a Workflow

Once the workflow file is opened, its execution can be triggered with the following code:

```python
result = workflow.execute()
```

External inputs for the workflow can be set by providing a Python dictionary as first argument of the `workflow.execute` call. This dictionary should be formatted using the input plug names from the `Input` operator as keys and the content that should be passed as values.

```python
workflow_externals = {
    "myFloatPlug1": 1.5,
    "myFloatPlug2": 9.5,
    "myBooleanPlug": True
}
result = workflow.execute(workflow_externals)
```

The `result` variable will contain a similarly structured dictionary with the output plug names of the `Output` operator as keys and their content as values. If the workflow does not contain an Output node, the result will be `None`, for this reason it is suggested to always set up an `Input` and an `Output` operator in your workflows.

> ### Execution Behaviour

Reviewer: I would be more specific, otherwise it might sound like the general execution of the workflow can be changed

```suggestion
### Stop on Error Behaviour
```

Author: I vote for removing this section now that we changed the default value. No need to specify the behaviour anymore I think

Author: removed it

Similarly to the Shift interactive option, the workflow execution behaviour can be modified. By default if a node in the graph errors, the execution of the subsequent nodes will continue. This behaviour can be changed by setting the following argument:

```python
result = workflow.execute(workflow_externals, stopOnError=True)
```

> With this setting active the workflow will stop executing when an error is raised. In case the execution stops the `result` will return `None`.

Reviewer: Avoid using  the word "this" when possible, especially at the start of new blocks of text.
```suggestion
By setting the `stopOnError` argument to `True` the workflow will stop executing when an error is raised. In case the execution stops the `result` will return `None`.
```

Author: Shouldn't we just remove this part now that @JorgeHernandezibanezinbibo changed the default value?

Reviewer 3: I'm waiting for the approval of the PR, but if we agree on merging it. I think this can be skip yes, because now is not a thing required to be done always.

Author: removed it

## Closing a Workflow

> It is highly recomended to close the workflow after the execution is done. This process will take care of cleaning the unneded Python modules from memory. This can be performed by calling the method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is highly recommended to close the workflow after the execution is done. This process will take care of cleaning the unneeded Shift catalogs from memory. This can be performed by calling the method:
```

# Batch Execution

Shift is able to run workflows without the need of a UI interface. This is called Batch mode and can be launched via a terminal command or using the Shift Python API.

## Terminal Command

The Batch execution of a Shift workflow can be launched using the `shift_batch_lite` command located in the Shift installation root folder. Here is an example of the command syntax:

> [!NOTE = Example Command]
> === Windows
> 
> `shift_batch_lite.bat "path_to_workflow_file/workflow.sft" myInt=1 myFloat=5.6 myBool=True myList=[1, 2.5, 0.03, 'Hello World'] myString='Shift is great!'`

This command allows users to provide initialization for external inputs via a human readable format. Like it is shown in the example above, an arbitrary number of specific input plug values can be passed to the workflow by formatting the arguments of the command as `<input_plug_name>=<plug_value>`. The plug value passed by the call will then be casted to the desired Python object type depending on the type of the plug that it is being set to.

> [!WARNING]

> > String type inputs must be wrapped in single quotation marks (`'`), as shown in the example above. Double quotation marks (`"`) are special characters that the OS might use to process the command syntax and can lead to unexpected behaviour.

Reviewer: We said that the same happens in Linux right? At the end we are using Bash

Author: yep, just tested on WSL and it also removes the quotation marks from the inputs.
